 Human nature is fascinating to me. Take the idea of visual perfection as it relates to fitness. If someone were to show you Virat Kohli or Smriti Vandana and say that you need to be like them, your starting point would determine how you would react. If you're starting your journey towards fitness, that would look like an unreasonable target. But on the other hand, if you're already running marathons, this would not seem too difficult. That same range of emotion was on display when someone said that you need 40 crore if you want to retire comfortably in 20 years. Now, of course, there was context to that statement and I don't want to get into that. Rather, I want to discuss why it caused such debate and how you should find what works for you. This is Money Wise and I'm Alex Mathew. Joining me on today's conversation are Vineet Iyer, Principal Officer and Managing Director Prudino Wealth Advisors, as well as Mohit Kang, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Moneyfront. Gentlemen, thanks so much for taking the time. Now, I know at least one of you had a comment to make to that but let's not get into that. The statement is important and the range of emotion, as I described, is important. So, let's first talk about why people had such a visceral reaction to that. You want to start, Mohit? Yeah, thank you, Alex, and it's a very interesting and a fascinating conversation, honestly, and I think we need to have more of such frank conversations around this topic of retirement. But I think that particular thing had three things going for it. One, obviously, the number, as you rightly put out, was too large for any imagination to actually fathom it, right? So, for a normal layman or for even a good, higher salaried class person, it's a little too steep a number to actually relate to. So, I think that was problem number one. Problem number two was, I think, there was a lot of fear psychosis which was getting built around in that communication. And problem number three, which I thought was a very realistic thing, was people couldn't relate with it because it's kept on stacking worst-case scenarios over worst-case scenarios, right? So, stacking up a 9% inflation with zero return on your portfolio post-retirement, a 30-year planning, I think everyone was, every parameter, though rightly built into the equation, was stacked up on all worst-case scenarios. And life is not so bad, Alex. Thank you for saying that because I was worried about what's gonna happen in 20 years. I don't think I'm gonna reach that mark. But having said that, Vinny, do you want to add something to that? There is this fear that what you're doing is not enough. And it's not a very good feeling to have. Yeah, absolutely. See, actually, if you look at the average Indian household income, it's not more than 10 lakh rupees. So, if you're looking at a 40 crore mark, that's like 400 times of someone's annual income, right? And that thought is going to make people disturbed. And on the contrary, it might make them to not actually save for it. Yeah, that's a very scary situation to be in. And that's the reason it cannot be a realistic kind of a thing, right? So, you need to be more realistic. And what my assessment says is, a good 30-40 times of annual income is good enough. So, we'll get to that in just a bit. But I want to actually drive home this point on how unrealistic 40 crore is. Because it helps to put things into context. So, the way that I thought we could do this would be to build out, and I sent this question to both of you earlier, right? Is to build out, starting at somewhere in your 30s, to say that in 20 years or 25 years, if you have to build out 40 crore rupees and you're starting from scratch, what would you need to do on an incremental basis to reach that mark? Do you have an answer for me? Okay, Mohit. Okay, so look, I think realistically speaking, and these are all numbers and I have some numbers for you. In 20 years, if you were to build a 40 crore corpus, you will need a sip of around 4 lakhs a month. Now, Alex, it's starting now. Starting now, if you need it in 20 years, and I'm assuming a 12% return out here. So, I'm not assuming a very, what do you say, out of the world. So, one sec, you're saying 4 lakhs over that period of time? Yes. Not incremented? Not incremented. Not incremented, of course. It's a stable line, straight line SIP. But at 15%, you would only need 2.6 lakhs, right? So, I'm just giving you some realistic. But the right way to look at it is, if you were to start a little early in life, and most people don't start at 40, the kind of financial awareness that we have today, I think people start much earlier in life. So, if you have a period of around 30 years, let's say 31 odd years, then the number comes down to around 1 to 1.5 odd lakhs. And if you have a period of around 37 odd years, Alex, then it can come to as low as around 50,000 rupees a month, which is a much more realistic number. So, time is the bigger variable out here. Again, look, there are... At what percentage? These are all at 12%. 12%. These are all at 12% kind of thing. So, there are multiple ways of looking at it. Look, a simplistic way, Alex, to my mind is to look at what you can save every month. If you can save around 15% to 25% of your income and invest that prudently into a long-term equity plan, then I think you're more or less... Again, I want to get into this in just a bit, because I want to discuss how to come up with the number. But you did your own calculations. Did you come up with a different figure? Because what I actually had in mind is nobody really starts with that 4 lakh number. Or even for that matter, nobody starts with a 1.2 lakh number. If you're talking about somebody in their 30s, this is... Let me give you an example, for me, I started really saving at 29. The reality is that I was living alone in Mumbai, and I was paying rent and hardly saving any money over and above that. Anything that went over that was to keep pace with my social circles that were all living in Mumbai. And so, therefore, you don't have any money saved over. You start having that surplus when you're in your early 30s. So, therefore, you increment your saving over a period of time. Do you have a calculation that will capture that? Yeah. I mean, I share some calculation, but what we need to understand is that in the earlier part of the years, maybe saving is not a very big component of your overall strategy of the income. But as and when you grow in life and assuming that every few years there is a change or a promotion, which actually helps you to get an increment, right? At that point in time, if you can actually use that incremental amount to increase your savings potential, I think that helps a lot. That's a powerful concept. And second thing is that once a person settles on a double income, all of these things will actually help push the savings component. Having said that, I did some math where for, say, every one lakh rupees, you can practically, if you're starting in your 30s, if you need a one lakh rupees of equivalent cash flow, say, after 25 to 30 years for a 35, 40 years of retirement period, you can start with as less as about 50,000 rupees if you're looking at a 5% of annual increment as investments, right? That helps you. So if someone is today earning a two lakh rupees, managing a 50,000 rupees of savings is possible. Maybe a little bit of stretch, but it's possible. So we work with a lot of clients and the moment we look at their expenses and the kind of income that they have, getting that retirement savings is not a very difficult task, right? And you need to keep it realistic at the end of the day, because what I feel is that you don't need a GPS for retirement. What you need is a compass, right? It should show you direction that you're going to get there. Okay. I mean, the way could be a little deviating in between, but getting to that destination is important. A figure could change a little bit and accordingly you can manage the other things. So we'll come to the figure again in just a bit. I'm holding, I'm not keeping this back as a hook for you to stay, but I want to deal with the figure itself, which is to say that there is a school of thought, gentlemen, to say in the personal finance space, and this is from Morgan Housel, no less. And anybody who's read about personal finance would have read the psychology of money. And what he writes is that it does not make sense for you to come up with a figure that you want to target. He says that you need to, just as you've said, directionally move towards that, not have a single figure in mind, because you don't know what's going to happen at the end of the month. How are you going to know what's going to happen in 25 years? So is it foolhardy to come up with a number and say, I'm going to work towards that number and come at me, I'm going to hit it. You want to take that? There are good or bad parts about targets, Alex. Once it obviously gives you a direction, it gives you a sense of a purpose, right? So you need to achieve a particular thing. You will definitely go towards it. What you, what you track, you tend to deliver. But obviously the bad part... Or at least come close. Or come close to it. The bad part about this entire thing is that you get, you can get too infatuated with that number. And then certain discussions like the ones can actually derail you or demotivate you completely, right? So a good part would be to have a range, have a target range. So this is where I want to land. It could be a range of 10 to 15 crore, 15 to 20, all depending on your individual circumstances and the kind of spending you have every month. But it has to have realistic assumptions built in. It can't be over cautious assumptions and it can't be quite, what do you say? Easy go assumptions also. The assumptions and plus it has to be revisited every five years because the world changes dynamically. Every five years is a new world which is emerging. There are new things, there are new opportunities and there are new circumstances which are emerging in your personal lives also. So you have to account for all those things. There could be a situation where your job suddenly sees a jump up. and there could be a situation where your job could succumb to AI, right? So, you will have to build in those scenarios. So, you need to revisit, you have to have a range, and don't get over infatuated with that number. As long as directionally you are headed towards something, pretty much there are ways and means to adjust to it once you come closer to the event. That's an important point. And actually, the reality is that you're trying to do things that are within your control, aren't you? Vinit, there are a few things that you cannot have any control over. Is it going to rain in the monsoon? Is it going to be 92% of the long period average? You have no control. So, what you can do is plan accordingly. But do you want to add to this? Yeah. See, what happens, Alex, is that if a person is getting into planning, it has to maintain a balance between the current and the future life. So, sometimes what happens if you have such audacious target, you may kind of get demotivated, like Mohit said, and you may not save at all, or you save very, very little. At the same time, if you get influenced, right, in the wrong way of getting those target, you might want to save the maximum you can, and that impacts your current lifestyle. So, when you get into planning, it should give you the direction, and it should maintain a balance between your present and the future life. It cannot be a compromise in either of the two. That's actually a good point, because I've had conversations on this program itself, talking about the difference in thinking between generations. So, if you think about baby boomers, and I think about my parents as well, is that now, if I give them money, and I ask them what they did with it after six months, they will still have it. I've said, you take this, and you go for a trip, you go to Sri Lanka, you go somewhere else, it's still there. It's six months later, it's still there. Millennials are also cautious, but they actually do go out and spend, and young people are spending, thinking there is no tomorrow. But, I know that I'm making generalizations. I do want to talk about the concept of the calculator though, because one element of this entire conversation was because of that calculator. The danger of a single line extrapolation based on a calculator is that you will come up with an obscene number, either when it comes to returns, or when it comes to an inflation or cost adjustment. Is there a danger here? You were talking about adjustment every five years. That is important. There is. To me, that was the single biggest fallacy in that entire conversation, Alex. Look, I'll give you some very simplistic numbers. At 60, if you are assuming your inflation is 9% at that age, that means at 90 years of your age, you will be spending 13x more than what you were spending at age 60. Is that any way possible for a 90-year-old person? So, you have to have that thing. Typically, inflation post-retirement follows a smile curve, which is from 60 to 70, you would have some travel, some experiences. It goes up a little. From 70 to 80, it just dips down a little. You become socially a little less active. You have lesser travel. You are just a little more silent and peaceful. And from 80 to 90, again, perhaps it can pick up because you will need intensive care or health care, or whatever that is, right? So, it follows a smile curve. It's never a straight line kind of a thing, right? Similarly, on your retirement corpus. Now, on your retirement corpus also, you can't have straight-line assumptions. Let's say today, if I were to retire, and let's take an example. If someone were to retire start of March 2020 with an X amount of corpus, he was already down 35% in a month, okay? And let's say his withdrawals also start at that point in time. So, he's starting at a very bad note in spite of starting with the right corpus. And someone who retires at, let's say, May or April of 2020, just two months later, with the same corpus, but he will have a much greater start because he'll start accumulating from there on, or the return from there on will be a much different kind of a trajectory. So, a person having a same retirement corpus, or let's say, just assuming an investor A, who has a 12% IRR returns or a CAGR return, investor B, both 12% CAGR return, but one investor gets it at the start of his journey, and other investor gets it at the end of his journey, the return profiles are extremely different. The compounding impacts are extremely different. Your starting point and your ending point. The starting point and ending point matters a lot. So, typically, when you make these kind of calculations for retirement, you have to follow a bucket strategy, which is you have a provision for 0 to 5 years. You have a provision from 5 to 15 years, and 15 years and plus kind of retirement journey. The first bucket is your liquid bucket. The second bucket is your hybrid bucket. And the third bucket is your equity bucket or a risk bucket. So, that's why I'm saying generalizations are too easy to be made, but retirement is a very complex calculation to be built with each individual. We'll touch into some aspects of that, but I want to give you the opportunity to speak about calculators as well. Certain assumptions, like for example, just simple economic theory would tell you that over a period of time, we're already a significantly larger economy than we were 20 years back. And I remember having looked at inflation figures between 2011 and 2014, we were at double digit inflation in certain pockets, right? We're at very close to 4% or benchmarked to that. The Reserve Bank of India governs that. But in all probability, when you become a developed economy, and if you believe that 2047 goal, then you will be a developed economy in that time. Your inflation figure will be significantly lower. The US, even as things stand right now with inflation higher than it should be, is at 3% thereabouts. So that argument that 9% inflation is what you need to factor into is wrong. See, Alex, what you also need to understand is that usually in economies, you will see that between the return that you make and the inflation, there is always a 2% to 3% markup. For example, if today, if my return is, say, on a fixed income, say around 7%, 8%, if you talk about some of the government-oriented instruments, and if you look at the inflation, there is a 2% to 3% markup that you get. So eventually, when the economy develops, the inflation comes down. Of course, your returns would also come down, but there'll be, in all good circumstances, there'll be a 2% to 3% difference till then, right? So it cannot be a situation for a longer period where your returns are lesser than inflation. It could happen for a temporary period, but again, you have to have your means and ways to manage those situations when you're doing the working and preparing for it. That's point number one. Point number two, there is a concept called a sequential return risk, which means that a 12% return cannot be linear, right? In some years, you'll make 20%. In some years, it will be minus 10%. We've experienced that the last two years. Exactly, so you need to make in for those kind of scenarios, and like Mohit rightly alluded to, the bucket strategy, that's a beautiful way of managing risk, at the same time ensuring that something that you need, say, 10, 15 years after today, those are not getting affected, or in the sense, you are not securing that by putting it into low-yielding instruments, right? You can still take risk, and even if that goes through volatility, it is still okay. You have your next five to 10 years of money sitting in safer or medium-risk kind of a category. Got it. I want to get into the nub of the issue, which is how do you come up with the number that fits your requirement? And to a certain extent, this is the most personal thing that you can think of when it comes to personal finance, because it would depend on an inordinate number of factors. What is your lifestyle like right now? What is the lifestyle creep that you will be prone to? What is your career path likely to be? How conservative are you as an investor? What is your inheritance? How much money did your parents leave you? Did your aunt give you some money? It can be numerous, numerous different variables. So therefore, okay, we're not saying one-size-fits-all solution, but what are the kind of assumptions that you need to make, and how do you come up with a number that fits for you? Mohit, I'll start with you. Look, there are multiple ways of doing it, and technically, a certified financial planner can take you through that journey, or a registered investment advisor can take you through that journey in terms of provisioning and planning for everything, right? So either you go the expense way, or you go the income way. You can list out all your expenses, and then you can see how those expenses will grow over a period of time, and what all will get eliminated out of it, right? So healthcare perhaps can increase, but child's education, your EMIs, your loans will all be paid off. You will have a real asset of your own, and so on and so forth. So you can keep building those assumptions, and come at a very, very realistic retirement number, and also will depend on the geographical location where you will finally decide to stay. What is appropriate for inflation? Look, my sense is, as you rightly pointed out, I'm not of the camp, Alex, thinking that inflation in our lifestyles will be like 6%, 7%, 0%. I'm a more realistic person with a 5% to 6% band. I think that's the most appropriate. If your country keeps getting advanced, and if you are economically developing as a country, then perhaps the right inflation rates to settle for is 5%. If you really want to build in some extreme scenarios, go for 6%, but beyond that, I think it's more mathematical. Yes, yes, right. So I think a 5% number should be a good number to go with. Take three scenarios, four, five, and six, and you are pretty much, pretty much okay with all the computations, right? So the second part is the income part, right? Now, again, your income can be nonlinear. It's never a straight line curve. It can go step. You will have step graphs in your career. So the right way to me is if you are saving. 15 to 25% in that band of your regular take-home income, say you are a 1 lakh salaried guy, if you are putting in around 25,000 rupees monthly in your investments and that 25 need not be all equity, it can be 20,000 equity and 5,000 of a smaller bucket, you will be very well taken care of. The only condition is don't touch and tamper with that corpus, don't pause that continuation mechanism, continue it for 20 years, for whatever is your lifestyle, you will sustain that. You will definitely sustain that, right? That 20% marker is a great marker, 15 is the starting threshold, bare minimum. You do that, you are very well provisioned for and taken care of, you will never go wrong in a retirement. One thing that Vinit, you were talking about on this concept and I am going to give you an opportunity to talk about how you should come up with a retirement concept, but I think that this is a very powerful force to say that any time that your income has gone up, you were surviving just the previous month with much less, right? And so therefore, you can say if you are doing 20%, of the increment you can do 25 or 30% and what happens is over 5 years, instead of doing 20%, you are actually closer to 30% and that becomes a very powerful force as you go along and you can eventually hit 35, 40% which helps you reach your target significantly faster. Having said that, do you have a different approach to coming up with a retirement number? Yes, so what I do is with my set of clients, I work on a cash flow mechanism where the year at which or the age at which they want to retire, I put that in an Excel spreadsheet and just put all the milestones that they have post that age. It could be their children's education, marriage, their retirement annuity, it could be travel, some of the clients may want to plan some good new venture. So all of these things pan out and then we do a reverse calculation to find out what is that idle corpus with certain assumptions. So typically, the assumption that I take for retirement expense is about 7% pre-retirement and post-retirement, I cap it to about 5%. So with this, a decent kind of a corpus comes in and then every year, we kind of look at how the cash flows are panning out versus the budgeted ones and then where the gap is and how we need to alter the withdrawals for that particular year. So this activity should be done ideally once every six months or at least once in a year. You talked about withdrawals and I was having a conversation about the withdrawal rate. Because that's another aspect of this, when you stop earning on a monthly basis and you start pulling from the corpus that you have saved up, essentially your nest egg, how long will it take for it to be deteriorated completely? Of course, it also depends on the return post-retirement and it's important therefore to have a portion of your retirement corpus in equity. What is appropriate to calculate for a withdrawal rate? Because the person I was speaking to earlier in the week said 4% is a level for the West. In India, you might actually need less than that. Is that okay? Look, again, it will depend on your situation and circumstances, especially which city are you living at and what's the cost of living there? Actually, before we get to that, can you explain the concept? I'm just assuming that everybody knows, but explain the concept. Look Alex, to be very honest, I think if you're staying in Mumbai or Bangalore or Delhi, perhaps your lifestyle or just the cost of living in these kind of cities can be a little higher. So you perhaps might need at least 30 to 40% higher post-retirement corpus versus let's say staying in a city like a Jodhpur or even going to Goa and settling out there or perhaps some very small town. So your cost of living won't be that high. So you won't need that kind of a corpus. So what you can sustain in Mumbai for a lakh, you perhaps can do that same thing in 50-60,000 in a small city. Fair point. But what I wanted you to do is to describe what is that withdrawal rate. So on the withdrawal rate, basically, let's say take a small calculation. If I have a 10 crore corpus at my retirement, and I assume a 4% withdrawal rate, which means 40 lakhs a year. Now 40 lakhs a year typically is roughly around 3-3.2 odd lakhs a month. That's my corpus at retirement. So if I have a retirement corpus at my age 60, which is 40 crores, I can easily withdraw around 3-3.5 lakh rupees every month, which in today's terms will be let's say 1.5-1.75 odd lakhs, considering an inflationary impact of 20 years on that. So that's your withdrawal rate, which can sustain you at 0% rate of return, or at a very minimalistic rate of portfolio growth for 27-30 years. Because 4% for 25 years, you will deplete the corpus, then corpus if it beats inflation marginally also, will keep growing at a certain rate. So the typical computation comes at around 27-30 years. So at 60 years, if you start dipping into your retirement corpus by 4% every year, and the corpus is growing just above inflation, just above inflation every year, you're very well taken care of for 27-30 odd years. If it grows above 1% or 2% above inflation, which is let's say a typical 60-40 combination, a 60 equity 40 debt, or a 50 equity 50 debt combination, will also give you around 8 odd percent kind of return, which is 1-2% above inflation, you are extremely well taken care of Alex. Then you don't have to bother about it. Do you agree 4% is good to maintain? The concept was actually introduced by Mr. William Begin back in the 1980s. That's a very west kind of a thing. For India, 3-3.5% is a good number to be considered, because we can have surprises in terms of returns, we can have surprises in terms of inflation, we are still getting there, we are not yet there in terms of a developed economy. So I think 3-3.5% would be a good rate. And also you need to understand that our lifestyles are getting poorer, but the improvement in healthcare is actually increasing our lifespans. So if you are planning for an 80-85, maybe it will be good if you are planning say around 90. So for that additional 10 years, 3-3.5% withdrawal rate will actually help you push for that additional 10 years. Like what Mohit said, 4%, 30 years, additional 10 years you need, you need to cut down on your retirement, the withdrawal rate. Absolutely. And on that note, it's actually a reminder to get more active, right? So exercise along with saving a little bit of money. I guess that concept that I started with is a good way to end the show as well. Gentlemen, thanks so much for taking the time. And also the other thing that strikes me is that you have a choice when you reach the age of retirement, you can spend less if you haven't hit the mark that you thought that you would. There are multiple ways to manage. There are a lot of ways to manage. You can always be happy. You can always be happy. On that note. Thank you so much for watching. Do stay tuned. This is NDTV Profit.