 Out of the many topics that we have conversations about on this platform, there is one that is by far and away the most divisive, and that is real estate. You say that for a large number of people, at least till they are of a certain age, it makes more sense for them to rent than to buy, and you will have thousands of people telling you that you have no idea what you are talking about. And yet, the buying of a house is fraught with danger, and that is because it is very likely to be the most that you will pay for anything in your life. I have been looking forward to this conversation on Money Wise, and that is because the person that I am going to speak to has significant insight on real estate that I am definitely going to benefit from, and I think you can too. Vishal Bhargava, a real estate media professional and host of our newest show, The Habitat. Thank you for joining me today. Vishal, thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you, Alex. So, let me start at the question, right? There is this tendency like any other asset class to paint real estate with the same brush. Should you definitely not do that? Well, you cannot do that. Just like in stocks, you have your small cap, mid cap, large cap. In real estate, it is broken down into even more, many more segments. So there is at the country, then city, within a city, micro markets, within micro markets, even a building. So you have to be very careful as to how you assess a market. Can you do it with a broad brush? Absolutely not. But there are some inherent patterns that in a way govern all the real estate micro markets, and possibly sometimes the entire city as well. What are those common factors? Because ultimately, obviously, ultimately it is real estate. So see, the biggest factor is sentiment. Real estate is sentiment, sentiment, sentiment. If you feel optimistic about the future, you will buy. If you feel pessimistic about the future, you most likely will delay or not buy. So sentiment overrides everything. So sentiment is the deal breaker, or the deal maker in many cases. After that, it comes across as to, is it a good project for me? Is it a good builder for me? Is it a good price for me? Invariably, all those three never come together. But you have to do the compromise. It's like the impossible trinity. You have to see maybe two out of three work. If two out of three work, most times the job gets done to the satisfaction of the developer and the buyer. Very interesting that you're saying that. So therefore, while there are commonalities between real estate and other asset classes, you drew parallel to equity. Can it be said, however, that you have to look at it differently? In that, if I look at a real estate project, can I compare it to what Warren Buffett says about equity? You buy when others are fearful, and you sell when others are greedy. Does it work like that? I would discourage people from that philosophy. See, the thing is, I'm sure the legendary stock investor has a very nuanced reason for his point of view. In real estate, I would suggest when things are really shaky, you should be like a rat. You jump. Because in real estate, the cycle to recovery is very long, painful. And it is fraught with too many legal complications. Unlike in equity, where you buy a stock and there is scope to, in a way, liquidate some part at whatever price point. In real estate, it's one asset. You either have that or you don't have that. So you're all in. So you've got to be very careful when you get in, because getting out is very tough. In this regard, I will disagree with the legendary investor for real estate. The way you should have to approach real estate is, if I have to give it a stock market analogy, and since yours is a stock market platform, is that if you're buying under construction property at an early stage, think of it that you're buying a small cap stock. There is a healthy upside, but there's a healthy amount of risk as well. Then if you buy it at a mid-level construction stage, think you're buying a mid-cap stock. And then, if you're buying it at almost completion, you're buying a blue chip stock. The upside is very limited, but it's more, you know, you want steady appreciation, so on and so forth. Once you buy it after OC, or after completion, think of it like a fixed deposit. It can't go wrong, but it'll give you those sort of returns. Inflation index, in a way. Interesting. So therefore, I think the original objective when you're buying the real estate needs to be identified. Are you buying it because you want to live in it, or are you buying it because you want to diversify, or you think that real estate is the next best investment to make? Can real estate be an amazing investment in the residential market in India? So residential market, it can be, but it's very tough. It's not as easy to find a very good residential opportunity in terms of investment in the Indian sphere. The best investment opportunity in real estate comes across in land. Sure. Okay. Because, you know, the cycle is pretty simple. If you first buy it in, one guy buys it in land, then he sells it in square meters, then they eventually buy it in square feet. The big play happens over there, right? You buy it in one denomination, the price optically looks lower when you buy it in per square feet. So in that regard, I think the clear focus, if someone has to buy residential real estate, he has to be able to pick those hidden gems. And there are like two or three formulas that are there, but not too many beyond that. And somebody will often think that is it worth taking the risk when the return is not substantial, but the risk is high. So why do you say though that residential real estate, the opportunities don't exist? Because look, the stories are galore, right? And everybody has anecdotal evidence of that. One family member that comes to the party and says, I bought a house in this value in 1998. Now look, it is so many crores. It doesn't work that way, does it? No, it works that way. See, the thing is, we only hear about the good stories. Yeah. We don't hear about the bad stories because, you know, everybody likes to talk about their successes. So that same relative uncle who says, you know, I made 5x by buying this property. He probably won't tell you that he bought a piece of land and is now stuck in litigation. So what happens is, because people don't talk about the negative stories, it becomes a self-perpetuating narrative. Everybody is saying that, only good stories, because the bad stories invariably come out only when it should have hit the floor, right? The only time, see, one of the problems in real estate is that, and I say this about scandals a lot, that in real estate, 9 out of the 10 scandals don't ever come in the public domain, because it becomes in the interest of the home buyer to not make it public, even though he knows he's been scammed. What are the kind of stuff that you've come across? So see, one very interesting one that I found was, so you know, just when somebody buys a home, there's an architect certificate you have to get to make sure that you do your next disbursement, okay? Because payment happens based on slab, right? So somebody says, now 10 slab is there, so make the next disbursement. Then 13 slab is done, 13 floor is done. So make the next payment. One very interesting case I saw in Mumbai some time back, where the architect certificate was only forged, the person paid up to the 20th floor, but the building was at the plinth, was at the ground floor. But didn't they go and check? See, okay, now, I know a lot of people say this, that buyers should check, but the buyer's point of view is, and I don't fault the buyer for this, is that one is, the builder is giving you the document, the architect is providing that document, which should have sanctity, otherwise he can lose his license. The lender has been given this document, so somebody in that chain would have idly verified. And everybody thinks that the other one will do it. But the one holding the can is the buyer. My goodness, I wanted to talk to you about risks, and I think this is an opportune moment to do that. You likened buying an under construction property, like buying a small cap. And I think to a large extent, people won't really relate the two, because let's face it, and Vishal, you probably know about this, we're going to say it anyway. Under COVID-19, people bought a lot of small caps. And you know, they've borne the brunt of that over the last two and a half years, because small cap space as a whole has gone through its own cycle. So maybe that's not an analogy that's going to hit. So basically, you're saying that it's fraught with risk, it's a lot of risk. Why do you say that? See, early stage under construction, to be fair, you can't blame in India, developers to a large extent. I know a lot of people think I'm very anti-developer, I'm not anti-developer. But even when you're buying under construction, invariably, there are so many variables for a developer also. There is some government guideline, there's some judiciary regulation, there is some green tribunal who say something and the project comes to a halt, like last year, example. We didn't see many launches in Mumbai, because of environment clearance holding up projects beyond a certain size. Now, people have factored in that, you know, I'll take up this project, I'll launch it on so and so date. But what do you do when there's a regulation that blocks you from doing it for six to nine months? So it's partly the developer's fault, to the extent that he doesn't plan his finances. But there are many things outside of his control that come into play. And if you buy early, and the project is stuck for a year, the typical model you have to go in your head, at least in Mumbai real estate, is that if your project is stuck for more than a year, year and a half, there's a very strong likelihood the developer will not make any money in the project. And if he's not making money in the project, there's a very good likelihood that he'll compromise on the project, either in the quality or the delivery. Okay. But aren't you protected by the RERA, by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority Act? See, RERA has been a boon for the real estate industry, for the home buyer. But see, RERA is still a quasi-judicial body. It doesn't have enforcement powers. And one of the unfortunate realities about Indian real estate is that many developers have a bigger legal team than a construction team. So they don't mind fighting it out in court, even if RERA rules against them. So RERA is, I'll put it this way, RERA provides you limited safeguards. Is it completely useless as many of the critics say, no. But is it that, you know, is it the silver bullet that has come to the rescue of home buyers? Absolutely not. The reason why people gravitate towards buying under construction property, ultimately my judgment and you tell me if I'm right, is affordability. And the fact that it's available at a significant discount to what you would get and you liken that for good reason to buying various types of investments, right? Limited upside. One, some people take a punt and you probably have good understanding of that in certain micro markets. But a lot of people in Mumbai, in certain other pockets will do so because there's a very big difference. Is affordability a major problem in metro cities? See, affordability is a very big challenge. The biggest challenge is there in Mumbai and Gurgaon. Gurgaon more than Mumbai, I'll say at this point of time. But see, a lot of people buy homes at under construction stage because they have this illusion that under construction homes are distinctly cheaper than ready homes. So, in many cases, they're not, I'll put it that way. And they are not, the gap is not as wide as people perceive it to be, okay? Because when you buy something at under construction, you have to be very, very clear. In my experience or my knowledge, I'll say that unless you expect your current price at under construction to be at least a 30% discount to the expected final price, don't buy it. Because a 30% is the least amount of cushion you should have for taking that risk. Let me ask you this, okay, what is a normal, I guess it would be different based on different sizes of construction, but if you're talking about a normal construction in the city of Mumbai or in Gurgaon or in Bengaluru, what is a normal time for the completion of a project? See, Mumbai is the longest because we go very tall. Okay. If you go very tall, you have to first go very down in the foundation. So, I think for a 60-floor building in Mumbai, it'll take about five years. Five years, okay. Okay. From the breaking of ground to everything, approvals and all of that. Gurgaon is bonkers. Gurgaon will do the same thing for maybe 30-floor buildings. Oh, okay. But then Gurgaon has a different ecosystem in terms of the model that they follow. In Mumbai, we, the builder constructs for the end user. Sure. So, he wants a home quickly. Right. So, the builder constructs for the trader or the investor who wants the cycle to be longer so that he can exit. Ah. Okay. So, Bangalore, in my view, is the best, actually, Bangalore. Because it's quickest, you're saying? It's quickest. So, Bangalore, in a way, tells you where Gurgaon lacks. Okay. Because you have similar number of stories, typically done, 30-floor, 35-floors. They do it very quickly. In three years. Three years, fast, very high efficiency, and they get the job done. They don't spend too much time in advertising first day sell-out and Bonanza, some Bollywood actor dancing at the ceremonies and all. Sure. They're very clinical in the operation. So, I think if you have to ask me one market that most major cities should learn from, in my view, it will be like a Bangalore or a Pune. So, here's the thing, right, and my follow-up question to that, if you're talking about a good developer and this idea that you're not going to get an option or opportunity down the line, if you don't book a flat in the opening stage, it's going to get sold out. Is that a fallacy? Yeah, that is. Artificial scarcity. No, there's no scarcity. Artificial or otherwise? See, the thing is, you're talking about Mumbai here? Mumbai, generally. See, okay. I'll put it this way. In Mumbai, there is no artificial scarcity. Okay. There's no scarcity. Developers are very clear as to how much is sold out, how much is unsold. Okay. Which is why we don't see too many of these first-day sell-out boards over here. Right? Yeah. Gurgaon is the opposite, I agree. If you're a reference to Gurgaon, in that I agree. Yeah, that is true. That I agree. Because there'll be, see, the thing is you have to create artificial scarcity for the belief or the narrative to be in the air that there's no supply, and suddenly I hold that one unit and every unit becomes more valuable because of that. So you have to think of, in a way, Gurgaon real estate like how, you know, the old-time movie theatres used to announce sold-out, house-full. Sure. It is house-full, but outside the black market they're selling. Sure. Okay. Now, I'm not saying that the traders are black market here. But the illusion has been that this is a house-full movie, that means it's a hit. Or an automotive company saying, you know, first day I'm opening my thing for 30 minutes, oh, I'm sold out. You could have actually produced more units. You could have. True, true. So here, it's similar to that. You have to create that FOMO and all. But every city goes through that, okay? A few weeks back I was chatting with the prestige Irfan Razak, and he was telling me that in the 90s they had the same stunt that they tried, but they've learnt that it backfires over a period of time. Okay. So it's eventually, you know, ishki tope ishki sir. Sure. In that regard, if you are stuck, you don't get the money, the project goes to a limbo. So Gurgaon will also learn and adapt to it. Okay. So the purpose of that conversation, the last two questions rather, was the opportunity cost. In economics, in personal finance, ultimately that's the first thing you will look at. If I'm not going to book a project at that early stage and wait for that three, three and a half, four, five years, what would you do with that money? So you can actually invest it in a mutual fund or otherwise, and spend that five years, even if you get a 10 to 11% compounded rate over the next three to five years, you're well placed. And you can then take a loan down the line and you're well served, aren't you? You can. The only difference between equity and real estate in this regard is that in equity you have to put all your entire investment up front to get that return. In a real estate project, you buy a two crore home by putting in 40 lakhs. So you're getting, if it goes up 10%, you're making 20 lakh rupees on a 40 lakh investment. So the other reason people buy early is because they say, I want my choice of inventory. To be honest, I've never quite understood this reality, you know, when people say, I want it for my inventory. There's so much, so many buildings coming across. You want exactly that particular, I want ninth floor, this facing that. I sometimes, I don't believe most people when they tell me that, that I did it because of inventory reasons. Most of the time, it's actually the price or the illusion that you're getting at a lower price for people to get into it. So let's talk about price because this is assuming that prices will always go up and will never fall. Is that true? Anyone who tells you that price will never fall is either a broker or does not know real estate. Okay. So I often tell people that the way to check who's a good broker is asking this question. Do real estate prices ever fall? If he says no, they never fall. He's not your broker. Get out of the room. Find out the broker. Run away. Run away. Run away. Because then, because then you have to be, you have to know if somebody's a broker, whose side is he on? Because if he's on your side, no, he will always get you the best price. He gets the best price. But if he tells you that price only rise, then you know, he's not batting on your behalf because he'll tell you whatever price available to you, buy it now because it'll only rise. So be wary of the broker who tells you that home price will never fall. But okay. So never fall. When are the instances that you've seen big falls, right? You've seen it in micro markets, certainly around the financial crisis, the global financial crisis, there was a crash and then it got bought into and that rebound took place fairly quickly. I don't know. Did it happen? COVID? I don't think it did happen. COVID-19. You haven't seen big falls, right? So, okay. 2008, that was a sharp hit that happened. From 2015 onwards, we saw what I call painful death or slow death. So time-wise correction. Time-wise correction. But that hurts more than an instant shot. What happens in that case is that it's, you know, when you get an instant shot, you don't have to bounce back. What is more painful for a developer often is, you know, that hope next month will get better and it never gets better. It's like that. It's like, you know, that patient who's there in hospital for so long, hoping to recover. He doesn't recover. It's painful. It's expensive. Versus somebody who gets in, gets their surgery done, gets out, gets back healthy. So we saw that phase between 2015 to 2020. In COVID, for the first six months, things fell off very sharply, the type of deals that have come to buyers. Oh yeah, they did actually, because there was panic at that time. There was panic. They sold. And I think builders behaved, for the first time, in at least my memory, they behaved very nimble-footedly. They gave good deals, good offers. I remember the conversations were, you sit across the table and we'll give you a good deal. It was not advertisements in the paper saying, hey, you know, discount sale, etc. But you sit across the table and say, you know what, give me 5% less, 10% less, I'll pay upfront, etc. Yeah, so I think, to be honest, right now we're also in the same zone. Okay, we are. We're already in the same zone. Interesting. Because see... In Mumbai or? In Mumbai, Gurgaon, for them. In smaller markets, even more actually. The thing is, in most of the markets, you have to be very careful as to how you really judge your developer. One of my big disappointments with the COVID has been that, you know, I saw that brief phase where I noticed many developers becoming very humble and very buyer-driven. Unfortunately, what happened is, in 2021, the market sort of started recovering and 2022-23, it was strong. So most builders escaped the, you know, that pain. And they've, in a way, gone back to that old zone of treating buyers as very dispensable players in the ecosystem. But for that six or seven month period, you know, I could see that builders were introspective, you know, we should have treated the buyer better, we should have committed right, we should have done. But right now, if you talk to the same people who are giving those conversations or webinars, their tune has changed fully. They've gone back to the same arrogance that created the crisis in the first place. So out of the impossible trinity, one of the factors, of course, was choosing your developer. And a lot of people gravitate towards the tried and tested. There are a few that are blue chip names, so to speak, for good reason. Are you taking a significant risk by choosing to not go because they command a premium as well? See, blue chip in, OK, I'll tell you what, a blue chip in Indian real estate does not mean you get a great product. OK, it just means you'll get the product. OK, you're guaranteed of delivery. You're guaranteed of delivery, not the quality of the delivery. OK. And the proof of that is in one of the largest developers who listed also on the on the stock exchange, having constant issues on his product quality that his buyers have been raging about, both in Mumbai and in Gurgaon. OK, so it is the short see that unfortunately, the benchmark of an Indian home buyer is so low that he thinks mere delivery of the house is an achievement, which is why that premium versus a branded developer versus an unbranded developer can be as much as 25 to 30 percent. Yeah. But when you get the product, you don't feel that, which is why this is backlash from home buyers who think that, you know what, I paid 30 percent extra. And what do I get? The tile peeling off from here, the construction quality being weak. So I think this is the next stage of the evolution of real estate where I think branded developers will have to learn that just giving homes to the buyer will not be enough. I'll raise the quality as well. So therefore, and I'm sure that there are plenty of unbranded developers that are giving very good quality at this point. How do you find them? So see, every branded developer is not a good developer, but every unbranded developer is not a bad developer. Sure. Yeah. So you have to go and look at the track record. Many of these unbranded developers don't believe in spending money on marketing, branding. Word of mouth. You have to go and see his last five buildings. I think that's, you know, there are only three or four ways you can segment how to choose. One is if I want to track record, go and see his last few buildings. I'll know what is to be done. If I want to know his intent, read the legal agreement between the builder and the buyer. In that you'll always find enough clauses that will give you suspicion as to why is he putting that there in the agreement? He has a plan B, plan C, plan D. If you want to know the developer's financials, his capital capability, go to that developer's lenders to understand what rate they are giving him money, what terms to give him money. If it is something very, very expensive, you know, they have a very high risk placed on the developer. You should have the same risk placed on him. How much do you have to peruse the documentation in that? The original plan, the sanction plan, what has actually come through? Because I've heard of stories where one balcony shaved off or something is gone from the original sanction plan and now that's no longer there. That happens quite a bit, doesn't it? That doesn't happen as much now. What used to happen? Yeah, I agree with you. It used to happen earlier to the Wild West. In that regard, I think RERA has played a very strong role in ensuring that we have at least got our plans in place. People still make some changes if they get consent of the of the home buyers, you know, to arrange things. And see, unfortunately, what happens, most home buyers give a consent because after a certain stage of construction, the project, the home buyers have more skin in the project than the builder himself. Yeah. So it's one of those very ironical dilemmas where, you know, he is a developer. It's your money, but he has more power. So coming to the last part of this conversation, which is that real estate, and you mentioned this as well, liquidity is a big issue, right? And if you're investing in real estate, you're not guaranteed your price because ultimately beauty is in the eye of the beholder. And the buyer will always come and say, hey, you know, it's not working for me. I'm getting a new property at XYZ. So why should I buy this? Give me a 20 percent discount or 15 percent discount, depending on your desperation. You will agree with it. Any advice for people looking to sell in the secondary market? See, if you're looking to sell, you should always, the first problem comes is you have, you have been told the wrong price about the value of your apartment. Okay. You think your value of your apartment is five crores. Okay. Who tells you that? Your broker. Right. Okay. But the thing is, you have to tell your broker. You don't tell your broker whether he's the buyer or the seller. Okay. If you tell you are the buyer, he'll tell you the high price. If you say the seller, it's a low price. So you have to, you have to know how to get your message out to know the true value of the property. Most times buyers go wrong is that they believe their value is overpriced because some bugger has told them, your rate should be five crore or three crore or two crore. And that's not the real rate. Yeah, it's inflated. And the truth, the true test of your property is when the broker tells you now your property value is three crore. So, okay. I'm okay selling it for two crore ninety eight lakhs. Get me a buyer. Most times I've seen the broker can't manage that. Then he will tell, he will spin those stories. You know, market is very low. There's this Iran war going on. Crude prices have gone higher. There's so much supply in the market. Interest rates are going to go up. Blah, blah, blah. Then the stories come on. But the way you have to judge it is that you have to believe no one. You have to talk to enough people and then get a calculated perspective on what your value holds. Don't be needlessly greedy. People. I've most cases I've known where buyers go wrong. The property value is two crores. They stick on to two crores for two years, three years, four years and get that same amount. Yeah. You if you believe your property will not appreciate meaningfully. Sell today. Get out. The opportunity cost. Yeah, it's very high. That's the bottom line. It's been a fabulous conversation. Thanks so much for taking the time. I'm looking forward to seeing more episodes of The Habitat. And I'm sure everybody else tuning in is as well. But like I said, that brings us to the end of this edition of Money Wise. Thanks so much for tuning in and stay tuned. Lots more coming up on NDTV Profit.